# Administering Profiles {#c_admin_profiles_intro .concept}

Profiles provides two types of administrative capabilities: configuration settings and administrative commands. You change configuration settings and execute administrative commands by running scripts from the wsadmin command line.

Jython Scripts run from a wsadmin command line are used to configure and to administer Profiles. These scripts use the AdminConfig object available in IBM® WebSphere® Application Server Admin \(wsadmin\) to interact with the configuration repository.

You can update the Profiles environment in two ways:

**Configuration settings**
:   Modify these settings to control various configurable applications within Profiles. When you make configuration changes, you use scripts to check out the Profiles configuration file, `profiles-config.xml`, make changes, and then check the file back in. A server restart is required for your changes to take effect.

**Administrative commands**
:   Use these commands to control various aspects of the Profiles environment. Administrative commands do not require a server restart to take effect.

The following topics describe how to administer Profiles:

-   **[Running Profiles administrative commands](../admin/t_admin_profiles_changing_admin.md)**  
Scripts are used to administer the Profiles application. These scripts use the AdminConfig object available in IBM WebSphere Application Server wsadmin client to interact with the Profiles server.
-   **[Changing Profiles configuration property values](../admin/t_admin_profiles_changing_config.md)**  
Configuration settings control how and when various Profiles operations take place. You can edit the settings to change the ways that profiles behave.
-   **[Tivoli Directory Integrator Solution commands](../admin/r_admin_profiles_tdi_commands.md)**  
The following IBM Tivoli® Directory Integrator Solution `(tdisol)` commands are available for managing profile data and performing user data synchronization tasks. These commands are also known as Assembly Lines.
-   **[Adding supplemental content to Profiles](../admin/c_admin_profiles_add_content.md)**  
You can use IBM Tivoli® Directory Integrator assembly-line commands to add photo files and pronunciation files for your users to the Profiles database.
-   **[Developing custom Tivoli Security Integrator assembly lines for Profiles](../admin/c_admin_profiles_develop_custom_tdi_scripts.md)**  
You can use Tivoli Security Integrator connectors to develop custom assembly-line scripts when you need to provide a specific type of function.
-   **[Managing profile content](../admin/c_admin_profiles_control_content.md)**  
You can enable the active content filter to prevent users from embedding malicious content in text input fields in Profiles. You can also use administrative commands to update or remove inappropriate information in fields to which you do not have owner access.
-   **[Configuring profile features](../admin/c_admin_profiles_configurable_features.md)**  
Configure some Profiles featuresby modifying the `profiles-policy.xml` file. You can enable, disable, and set access control settings for the following Profiles features, according to profile type.
-   **[Configuring widgets in Profiles](../admin/c_admin_profiles_configure_widgets.md)**  
To configure existing widgets or to make custom widgets available for use in Profiles, you modify settings in the `widgets-config.xml` file.
-   **[Configuring Profiles events](../admin/t_admin_profiles_configure_events.md)**  
Use configuration settings to control how you want the events generated by Profiles to be handled in your deployment for auditing purpose.
-   **[Managing Profiles scheduled tasks](../admin/t_admin_profiles_manage_scheduled_tasks.md)**  
Use the ProfilesScheduledTaskService administrative commands to manage the tasks scheduled for Profiles.
-   **[Administering cache](../admin/c_admin_profiles_cache.md)**  
You can modify settings in the profiles-config.xml file to configure the full report-to and object caches for Profiles. Use Profiles administrative commands when you want to enable, disable, or reload the full report-to chain cache.You can modify settings in the profiles-config.xml file to configure object caches for Profiles.
-   **[Managing the Profiles search operation](../admin/t_admin_profiles_search.md)**  
Use Profiles configuration settings to control how the search operation displays search results.
-   **[Monitoring statistics and metrics for Profiles](../admin/c_admin_profiles_stats.md)**  
Use the Profiles statistics capabilities to monitor operations and product usage.
-   **[Configuring the vCard export application for Profiles](../admin/t_admin_profiles_config_vcard_export.md)**  
Configure settings in the `profiles-config.xml` file to specify the character set encoding options used to export vCards.
-   **[Making photos cachable in secure environments](../admin/t_admin_profiles_make_photos_viewable.md)**  
If your Profiles deployment is configured to prevent profile data from being accessible to readers, you can opt to make just user photos cachable.
-   **[Enabling the use of pronunciation files in an HTTPS environment](../admin/t_admin_profiles_enable_pronunciation.md)**  
Ensure that Profiles users can save and play pronunciation files in an HTTPS environment by defining a rule in the IBM HTTP server’s configuration file.
-   **[Managing the Profiles event log](../admin/t_admin_profiles_manage_event_log.md)**  
Use Profiles administrative commands to manage the Profiles event log.
-   **[Configuring advanced settings in Profiles](../admin/c_admin_profiles_config_adv_settings.md)**  
Configure advanced settings in Profiles by adding information to the <properties\> element in the `profiles-config.xml` file.

**Parent topic:** [Administering](../admin/c_lc_admin_overview.md)

**Related information**  


[Integrating the Profiles business card](../customize/t_admin_profiles_include_biz_card.md)

[Customizing Profiles](../customize/c_admin_profiles_customizing.md)

[Managing users](../admin/c_admin_common_user_life_cycle_over.md)

[Customizing the Profiles business card](../customize/c_admin_profiles_customize_biz_card_links.md)

