# Configuring Profiles events {#t_admin_profiles_configure_events .task}

Use configuration settings to control how you want the events generated by Profiles to be handled in your deployment for auditing purpose.

By default, all IBM® Tivoli® Directory Integrator-related events are ignored for auditing purpose. For a list of the Tivoli Directory Integrator events that are logged, see *Tivoli Directory Integrator events*.

You can modify configuration settings in the tdi-profiles-config.xml and profiles-config.xml files to specify whether Tivoli Directory Integrator events are stored in the Profiles database and whether they are made available to the News application or third-party audit integration tools. For example, you might want to continue storing Tivoli Directory Integrator events in the Profiles database but you might not want to publish the events to the event infrastructure.

You can configure settings to control whether regular, end-user events are stored in the Profiles database or published to the event infrastructure.

1.  To configure Profiles events, complete the following steps.
2.  To specify whether to store Tivoli Directory Integrator events in the Profiles database, you need to manually update settings in the tdi-profiles-config.xml file.

    1.  Using a text editor, open the tdi-profiles-config.xml file.

        **Note:** After the TDI Solution files are extracted, the file is located in the following directory: TDI/conf/LotusConnections-config

    2.  In the <properties\> section of the file, update the value of the profiles.events.system.ignore property.

        ```
        <property name="profiles.events.system.ignore" value="false" />
        ```

        By default, the property is set to true so that Tivoli Directory Integrator events are not stored in the Profiles database.

3.  To configure event settings for the Profiles Web application, you must manually update settings in the profiles-config.xml file.

    **Note:** To edit the profiles-config.xml file, you must use the IBM WebSphere® Application Server wsadmin client. See *Starting the wsadmin client* for information about how to start the wsadmin command tool.

    1.  Check out the profiles-config.xml file by completing steps 1 and 2 of the topic, *Changing Profiles configuration property values*.

    2.  Using a text editor, open the profiles-config.xml file from the temporary directory to which you checked it out and perform the following steps:

        1.  To configure Tivoli Directory Integrator and system events, update the following properties in the <properties\> section of the profiles-config.xml file:

            profiles.events.system.publish
            :   Specifies whether to publish Tivoli Directory Integrator events to the HCL Connections event infrastructure. By default, this property is set to true.

                For example, if you do not want to publish Tivoli Directory Integrator events to the event infrastructure, set the value of the property to false as follows:

                ```
                <property name="profiles.events.system.publish" value="false" />
                ```

                **Note:** Tivoli Directory Integrator events must be stored in the Profiles database if you want them to be published to the event infrastructure. Therefore, if profiles.events.system.ignore in the tdi-profiles-config.xml file is set to true, the profiles.events.system.publish property has no effect, that is, system events and Tivoli Directory Integrator events will not be published to the event infrastructure.

            profiles.events.ignore
            :   Ignores all the events generated by Profiles. This property is set to false by default.

                This property is not explicitly listed in the profiles-config.xml file when you install HCL Connections. If you want to change the default setting so that the events generated by the Profiles application are ignored, you must manually add the property to the <properties\> section of the profiles-config.xml file and set its value to true as follows:

                ```
                <property name="profiles.events.ignore" value="true" />
                ```

                **Note:** If you installed the News application and are using it in your deployment, do not set the value of the profiles.events.ignore property to true. If you set it to true, the News application will not receive any events from the Profiles application.

        2.  To configure end-user events, update the following properties in the <properties\> section of the profiles-config.xml file:

            profiles.events.user.store
            :   Specifies whether to store regular, end-user create, update, and delete events in the Profiles database. By default, this property is set to true.

                This property is not explicitly listed in the profiles-config.xml file when you install HCL Connections. If you want to change the default setting so that end-user create, update, and delete events are not stored in the Profiles database, you must manually add the property to the <properties\> section of the profiles-config.xml file and set its value to false as follows:

                ```
                <property name="profiles.events.user.store" value="false" />
                ```

                By default, Tivoli Directory Integrator-related events are not stored in the Profiles database.

            profiles.events.user.publish
            :   Specifies whether to publish regular, end-user create, update, and delete events to the event infrastructure. By default, this property is set to true.

                This property is not explicitly listed in the profiles-config.xml file when you install HCL Connections. If you want to change the default setting so that create, update, and delete events are not published to the event infrastructure, you must manually add the property to the <properties\> section of the profiles-config.xml file and set its value to false as follows:

                ```
                <property name="profiles.events.user.publish" value="false" />
                ```

                **Note:** If you installed the News application and are using it in your deployment, do not set the value of the profiles.events.user.publish property to false. If you set it to false, the News application will not receive any events from the Profiles application.

    3.  Save your changes and then close the profiles-config.xml file.

    4.  After making changes, you must check the profiles-config.xml file back in, and you must do so during the same wsadmin session in which you checked it out for the changes to take effect. See *Applying property changes in Profiles* for information about how to apply your changes.


-   **[IBM Tivoli Directory Integrator events](../admin/r_admin_profiles_tdi_events.md)**  
By default, all IBM Tivoli Directory Integrator-related events are stored in the Profiles database and are published to the event infrastructure in HCL Connections.

**Parent topic:**[Administering Profiles](../admin/c_admin_profiles_intro.md)

**Related information**  


[Applying property changes in Profiles](../admin/t_admin_profiles_save_changes.md)

[Starting the wsadmin client](../admin/t_admin_wsadmin_starting.md)

[Changing Profiles configuration property values](../admin/t_admin_profiles_changing_config.md)

