# Error message reference {#c_error_codes .concept}

Use the codes included in the error messages generated by HCL Connections™ to identify problems and find their solutions.

-   **[Activities error messages](../troubleshoot/r_error_codes_activities.md)**  
Use the codes included in the error messages generated by HCL Connections to identify and correct problems with the Activities application.
-   **[Anti-virus error messages](../troubleshoot/r_error_codes_antivirus.md)**  
Use the codes included in the error messages generated by HCL Connections to identify problems with the Anti-Virus service plug-in and find their solutions.
-   **[Blogs error messages](../troubleshoot/r_error_codes_blogs.md)**  
Use the codes included in the error messages generated by HCL Connections to identify problems with blogs and find their solutions.
-   **[Bookmark form error messages](../troubleshoot/r_error_codes_bookmarklet.md)**  
Use the codes included in the error messages generated by HCL Connections to identify problems with the bookmark form and find their solutions.
-   **[Bookmarks error messages](../troubleshoot/r_error_codes_bookmarks.md)**  
Use the codes included in the error messages generated by HCL Connections to identify problems with bookmarks and find their solutions.
-   **[Common directory integration service error messages](../troubleshoot/r_error_codes_common_dir.md)**  
Use the codes included in the error messages generated by HCL Connections to identify problems with the common directory integration service and find their solutions.
-   **[Communities error messages](../troubleshoot/r_error_codes_communities.md)**  
Use the codes included in the error messages that are generated by HCL Connections to identify problems with the Communities application and find solutions.
-   **[Communities widget error messages](../troubleshoot/r_error_codes_widgets.md)**  
Use the codes included in the error messages generated by HCL Connections to identify problems with Communities widgets and find solutions.
-   **[Configuration error messages](../troubleshoot/r_error_codes_lc_config.md)**  
Use the codes included in the error messages generated by HCL Connections to identify configuration problems and find their solutions.
-   **[Connections Content Manager error messages](../troubleshoot/r_error_codes_ccm.md)**  
Use the codes included in the error messages that are generated by Connections Content Manager to identify configuration problems and find their solutions.
-   **[Content Management Integration Services \(CMIS\) error messages](../troubleshoot/error_codes_cmis_msgs.md)**  
Use the codes included in the error messages generated by HCL Connections to identify problems with Content Management Integration Services \(CMIS\) features.
-   **[Core error messages](../troubleshoot/r_error_codes_core.md)**  
Use the codes included in the error messages generated by HCL Connections to identify problems with IBM® WebSphere® Portal infrastructure and HTTP Server and find solutions.
-   **[Events service error messages](../troubleshoot/r_error_codes_events.md)**  
Use the codes included in the error messages generated by HCL Connections to identify problems related to the events service of the Home page application and find solutions to those problems.
-   **[Files and Wikis error messages](../troubleshoot/error_codes_files_wikis.md)**  
Use the codes included in the error messages generated by HCL Connections to identify problems with Files and Wikis.
-   **[Forums error messages](../troubleshoot/r_error_codes_forums.md)**  
Use the codes included in the error messages generated by HCL Connections to identify problems with forums and find solutions.
-   **[Home page error messages](../troubleshoot/r_error_codes_homepage.md)**  
Use the codes included in the error messages generated by HCL Connections to identify problems with the Home page and find their solutions.
-   **[Installation error messages](../troubleshoot/r_error_codes_install.md)**  
Use the codes included in the error messages generated by HCL Connections to identify and resolve problems with installation.
-   **[Moderation error messages](../troubleshoot/r_error_codes_moderation.md)**  
Use the codes included in the error messages generated by HCL Connections to identify problems with the Moderation application and find their solutions.
-   **[News repository error messages](../troubleshoot/r_error_codes_news.md)**  
Use the codes included in the error messages generated by HCL Connections to identify problems with the News repository and find their solutions.
-   **[Notification and ReplyTo error messages](../troubleshoot/r_error_codes_notifications.md)**  
Use the codes included in the error messages generated by HCL Connections to identify problems related to the notification and ReplyTo services of the Home page application, and find solutions to those problems.
-   **[Profiles error messages](../troubleshoot/r_error_codes_profiles.md)**  
Use the codes included in the error messages generated by HCL Connections to identify problems with the Profiles application and find solutions.
-   **[Search error messages](../troubleshoot/r_error_codes_search.md)**  
Use the codes included in the error messages generated by HCL Connections to identify problems with Search and find solutions.
-   **[User life cycle error messages](../troubleshoot/r_error_codes_user_life_cycle.md)**  
Use the codes included in the error messages generated by HCL Connections to identify problems that can occur when you are managing user state and other data, and find their solutions.

**Parent topic:** [Troubleshooting and support](../troubleshoot/ts_c_welcome.md)

