# Creating encrypted passwords for a response file {#t_silent_create_encrypted_passwords .task}

Add encrypted passwords to your edited version of the default response file.

You can create a response file using IBM® Installation Manager or by editing the file that is provided with the product. For more information about editing the file, see the [The default response file](r_installresponse_file.md) topic.

When you edit the default response file to suit your own environment, you must create encrypted passwords and add them to the file. Create encrypted passwords for both WebSphere® Application Sever and your databases.

To create encrypted passwords for a response file, complete the following steps:

1.  Open a command prompt and change to the HCL\_Connections\_setup/HCL\_Connections\_Install/IM/OS/tools directory, where OS is your operating system.

2.  Run the following command:

    -   Linux™: ./imutilsc encryptString Password -silent -noSplash
    -   Windows™: imutilsc.exe encryptString Password -silent -noSplash

        where Password is your password.

3.  Add the encrypted password to the relevant line in the response file. You usually need to enter passwords for both the WebSphere Application Server administrator and the database user. For example:

    <data key='user.activities.adminuser.password' value='encrypted\_password'/\>

    <data key='user.activities.dbUserPassword value='encrypted\_password'/\>

    where encrypted\_password is the value generated by the command.

    You might also need to change the default WebSphere Application Server administrator name from wasadmin, if different from your administrator name.

4.  Repeat these steps for each unique password.


Use the response file to silently install, modify, update, roll back, or uninstall HCL Connections.

**Parent topic:**[The default response file](../install/r_installresponse_file.md)

